JS SDK version migration doc improvements (#863)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/user-guides/how-to-guides/self-hosting-js-sdk.mdx

---
title: "How to host RudderStack JavaScript SDK on your CDN/Storage"

> description: Step-by-step guide on hosting RudderStack JavaScript SDK on your own CDN or storage.

Reviewer: This description and the next line talk exactly the same thing. Can we omit one of them?

---

> This guide will take you through the detailed steps to self-host RudderStack JavaScript SDK on your own CDN or storage:

Author: @saikumarrs The steps in this guide suggest following the recommended folder structure. LMK if you think we should cover alternate scenarios as well.

Reviewer: Makes sense. We've covered this in the migration guide. Let's move them here and refer this back there.

> 1. Download the [JavaScript SDK](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js) and save the file name as `rudder-analytics.min.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the [JavaScript SDK](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js) and save it as `rudder-analytics.min.js`.
```

2. Navigate to the required device mode destination SDKs by replacing the destination name from the URL: https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js

    - Download the `<destination_name>.min.js` file from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js 
    - Download the `<destination_name>.min.js.map` file from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map 

For example, you can download `HubSpot.min.js` and `HubSpot.min.js.map` files from  https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js and  https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js.map respectively.

<div class="infoBlock">

> Downloading and hosting the map file (<code class="inline-code">&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map</code>) is optional but recommended to help in troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Downloading and hosting the source map files (<code class="inline-code">&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map</code>) is optional but recommended to help in troubleshooting.
```

> 2. Navigate to the required device mode destination SDKs by replacing the destination name from the URL: https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js
> 
>     - Download the `<destination_name>.min.js` file from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js 
>     - Download the `<destination_name>.min.js.map` file from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map 
> 
> For example, you can download `HubSpot.min.js` and `HubSpot.min.js.map` files from  https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js and  https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js.map respectively.
> 
> <div class="infoBlock">
> Downloading and hosting the map file (<code class="inline-code">&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map</code>) is optional but recommended to help in troubleshooting.
> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Download all the device mode destination SDK files from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/. You would find the SDK and its source map files for each destination at <destination_name>.min.js and <destination_name>.min.js.map respectively.

For example, you can download the HubSpot files from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js and https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js.map.

<div class="infoBlock">
Downloading and hosting the source map file (<code class="inline-code">&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map</code>) is optional but recommended to help in troubleshooting.
</div>

<div class="infoBlock"> You can also selectively download and host the necessary destination SDK files based on the above naming convention. However, we recommend downloading and hosting all the files.
</div>
```

Reviewer: Feel free to rephrase as required.

Author: @saikumarrs Should we ask the users to download all the device mode destination SDK files? IMO, downloading only the ones required by them will do. Am I missing something?

> 3. Move the files downloaded in the above steps in a recommended folder structure as: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Move the files downloaded in the above steps in a recommended directory structure as: 
```

> <img src="../../assets/js-sdk-recommended-folder-structure.png" alt="Recommended structure for self-hosting RudderStack's CDN" />

Reviewer: Please change the "Base Folder" to "Base Directory" in this image.

Reviewer: Also, `js_integrations` to `js-integrations`.

Reviewer: Also, if possible, change the font of all the text to a monospaced type.

> <img src="../../assets/js-sdk-recommended-folder-structure.png" alt="Recommended structure for self-hosting RudderStack's CDN" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="../../assets/js-sdk-recommended-folder-structure.png" alt="Recommended directory structure for self-hosting RudderStack JavaScript SDK" />
```

> 4. Add the following script tag in your `rudder-analytics.min.js` file, as shown:

Reviewer: This step seems incomplete. It's better to the "Minified code" section from https://deploy-preview-863--rudderstack-docs-staging.netlify.app/sources/event-streams/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/quick-start-guide/ and replace the URL accordingly.

```html

> <script src="https://cdn.<yourdomain>.com/rudder-analytics.min.js"></script>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<script src="https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-sdk-base-directory>/rudder-analytics.min.js"></script>
```

---
title: "How to host RudderStack JavaScript SDK on your CDN/Storage"
description: Step-by-step guide on hosting RudderStack JavaScript SDK on your own CDN or storage.
---

This guide walks you through the steps to self-host the RudderStack JavaScript SDK and also covers different scenarios based on your directory structure.

1. Download the [JavaScript SDK](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js) and save it as `rudder-analytics.min.js`. Also, download the [corresponding source map file](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js.map), and save it as `rudder-analytics.min.js.map`.

> 2. Download the required device mode destination SDK files from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js. Also, download the source map file for the corresponding destination from: https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Download the required device mode destination SDK file from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js. Also, download the source map file for the corresponding destination from: https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map.
```

Reviewer 2: Unless we have multiple files for each device mode destination.

> For example, you can download the HubSpot files from  https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js and  https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js.map respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can download the HubSpot file from  https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js and  https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/HubSpot.min.js.map respectively.
```

<div class="infoBlock">
Downloading and hosting the source map files (<code class="inline-code">rudder-analytics.min.js.map</code> or <code class="inline-code">&lt;destination_name&gt;.min.js.map</code>) is optional but recommended to help in troubleshooting.
</div>

> 3. Move the files downloaded in the above steps in a recommended directory structure as: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Move the files downloaded in the above steps in the following directory structure: 
```

<img src="../../assets/js-sdk-recommended-folder-structure.png" alt="Recommended directory structure for self-hosting RudderStack JavaScript SDK" />

> 4. Add the following script tag in your website as shown:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Add the following script tag in your website:
```

```

## Alternate directory structure

If you have a specific use-case where you need to follow a directory structure different than the one recommended above, follow the steps 1 and 2, and proceed with one of the below depending on your directory structure:

- If your JavaScript SDK file name is `rudder-analytics.min.js`, but the destination SDKs are **not** located next to it under the `js-integrations` directory, add the following script tag in your website:

 ```html
 <script>
 // rudderanalytics object initialization
 // provide the location of the destination SDKs in the load options
 rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
     destSDKBaseURL: "https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-integration-sdks-directory>"
 });
 // ...
 </script>
 <script src="https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-sdk-base-directory>/rudder-analytics.min.js"></script>
 ```

- If your JavaScript SDK file name is **not** `rudder-analytics.min.js`, and the destination SDKs are **not** located under the `js-integrations` directory, add the following script tag in your website:

<div class="infoBlock"> 

> This option is recommended, as providing a custom name for the core JavaScript SDK file (instead of <code class="inline-code">rudder-analytics.min.js</code>) can help overcome ad-blockers, if any.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This option is recommended, as providing a custom name for the core JavaScript SDK file (instead of <code class="inline-code">rudder-analytics.min.js</code>) can help overcome the ad-blockers, if any.
```

</div>

 ```html
 <script>
 // rudderanalytics object initialization
 // provide the location of the destination SDKs in the load options
 rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
     destSDKBaseURL: "https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-integration-sdks-directory>"
 });
 // ...
 </script>

>  <script src="https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-custom-analytics-file>/<custom-analytics-file.js>"></script>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 <script src="https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-custom-analytics-file>/<your-custom-analytics-file-name.js>"></script>
```

Reviewer 2: IMO, it will be easier to relate and understand.

</script>

<script src="https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-sdk-base-directory>/rudder-analytics.min.js"></script>
```

## Alternate directory structure

If you have a specific use-case where you need to follow a directory structure different than the one recommended above, follow the steps 1 and 2, and proceed with one of the below depending on your directory structure:

- If your JavaScript SDK file name is `rudder-analytics.min.js`, but the destination SDKs are **not** located next to it under the `js-integrations` directory, add the following script tag in your website:

 ```html
 <script>
 // rudderanalytics object initialization
 // provide the location of the destination SDKs in the load options
 rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
     destSDKBaseURL: "https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-integration-sdks-directory>"
 });
 // ...
 </script>
 <script src="https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-sdk-base-directory>/rudder-analytics.min.js"></script>
 ```

> - If your JavaScript SDK file name is **not** `rudder-analytics.min.js`, and the destination SDKs are **not** located under the `js-integrations` directory, add the following script tag in your website:

Reviewer 3: Should we recommend this option to have a custom name for the file rather than rudder-analytics.min.js to help with ad-blockers ? @saikumarrs

Reviewer: Yeah, makes sense. CC @ishachopra0401

description: Step-by-step guide on hosting RudderStack JavaScript SDK on your own CDN or storage.
---

This guide walks you through the steps to self-host the RudderStack JavaScript SDK and also covers different scenarios based on your directory structure.

> 1. Download the [JavaScript SDK](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js) and save it as `rudder-analytics.min.js`.

Reviewer: I forgot to mention. We should also ask the users to download and host the source map file for the core SDK as well.

Author: @saikumarrs Where should this map file be placed in the recommended directory structure? Is it the same as the core JS SDK file:

base_directory > rudder-analytics.min.js
base_directory > rudder-analytics.min.js.map

Reviewer: Yes.

> 2. Download all the device mode destination SDK files from https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/js-integrations/ or you can selectively find and download the:

Reviewer: Adding a comment here as a reminder to enable listing integrations in this directory.

- If your JavaScript SDK file name is `rudder-analytics.min.js`, but the destination SDKs are **not** located next to it under the `js-integrations` directory, add the following script tag in your website:

 ```html
 <script>
 // rudderanalytics object initialization
 // provide the location of the destination SDKs in the load options
 rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {
     destSDKBaseURL: "https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-integration-sdks>"
 });
 // ...
 </script>
 <script src="https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-sdk-base-directory>/rudder-analytics.min.js"></script>
 ```

- If your JavaScript SDK file name is **not** `rudder-analytics.min.js`, and the destination SDKs are **not** located under the `js-integrations` directory, add the following script tag in your website:

 ```html
 <script>
 // rudderanalytics object initialization
 // provide the location of the destination SDKs in the load options
 rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL, {

>      destSDKBaseURL: "https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-integration-sdks>"

Reviewer: To improve clarity. Please change in all other places too.
```suggestion
     destSDKBaseURL: "https://<subdomain>.<yourdomain>.com/<path-to-integration-sdks-directory>"
```

This guide walks you through the steps to self-host the RudderStack JavaScript SDK and also covers different scenarios based on your directory structure.

> 1. Download the [JavaScript SDK](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js) and save it as `rudder-analytics.min.js`. Also, download the [corresponding map file](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js.map) which is automatically saved as `rudder-analytics.min.js.map`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the [JavaScript SDK](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js) and save it as `rudder-analytics.min.js`. Also, download the [corresponding source map file](https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js.map), and save it as `rudder-analytics.min.js.map`
```

Reviewer: The behavior may not be consistent across browsers. Hence, it's better to generalize the process.
